# hostparasite_gametheory
02-601 Programming for Scientists project

Welcome to the host-parasite game theory simulator! The goal of this program is
to give you an easy to use customizable simulator to observe host-parasite population
evolution. You can run the program by using the following steps:

1. Install Go from https://golang.org/doc/install.
2. Install Python3 from https://www.python.org/downloads/. (Unix-based operating
   systems often have Python pre-installed, if you already have Python3 installed
   then you can skip this step)
3. Open your command line (Terminal/Command Prompt) and navigate to the directory
   where the files are stored.
4. Type "go run main.go" to start the program.

There are three modes of the simulator:

1. Comparison mode(c): Runs Replicator and Matching algorithm on the same input,
   generates two separate files for both algorithms. Hence, you can see the results
   both algorithms give for the same data.
2. Analyze mode(a): Allows you to give up to 10 different values for a single
   variable and fix the other parameters in place. Generates a file for every
   different value of the variable. Hence, you can study the effect of one single
   parameter on the evolution controlling for all other parameters. Implements
   Replicator algorithm.
3. Sandbox mode(s): It allows you to set all parameters and runs the Replicator
   algorithm, generating a single file.

In each mode, follow the instructions on screen and enter the values prompted.
(For best results, keep initial population sizes above 100 and the costs, mortality
and energy values as a decimal <1. The program would still work otherwise but the
results won't be very biologically relevant)

After the Go program finishes, you can generate graphs to visualize your data using
graphing.py.

1. Type "python graphing.py" followed by your mode (compare/analyze/sandbox).
2. If the mode is analyze, be sure to also write the number of values (n) your variable
   can take. For example, if you generated files for host population = 50, 100, and 200,
   n = 3.
3. Press enter!

The program will draw graphs named according to the mode:

1. compare: "matching.png" and "replicator.png" for the data generated by the two
            algorithms
2. analyze: "parameter1.png", "parameter2.png"... "parametern.png" where (n) is the
            number of values you analyzed (as above)
3. sandbox: "sandbox.png"

Have fun! :)
